.TH WULT "1" "2023\-03\-16" "wult" "Generated Python Manual"
.SH NAME
wult
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wult
[-h] [-q] [-d] [--version] [--force-color] {deploy,scan,start,report,filter,calc} ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
wult \- a tool for measuring C\-state latency.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Show this help message and exit.

.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Be quiet.

.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Print debugging information.

.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Print version and exit.

.TP
\fB\-\-force\-color\fR
Force coloring of the text output.

.SH
COMMANDS
.TP
\fBwult\fR \fI\,deploy\/\fR
Compile and deploy wult helpers and drivers.
.TP
\fBwult\fR \fI\,scan\/\fR
Scan for available devices.
.TP
\fBwult\fR \fI\,start\/\fR
Start the measurements.
.TP
\fBwult\fR \fI\,report\/\fR
Create an HTML report.
.TP
\fBwult\fR \fI\,filter\/\fR
Filter datapoints out of a test result.
.TP
\fBwult\fR \fI\,calc\/\fR
Calculate summary functions for a wult test result.

.SH COMMAND \fI\,'wult deploy'\/\fR
usage: wult deploy [\-h] [\-q] [\-d] [\-\-kernel\-src KSRC] [\-\-rebuild\-bpf] [\-\-local\-build] [\-\-tmpdir\-path TMPDIR_PATH] [\-\-keep\-tmpdir] [\-H HOSTNAME] [\-U USERNAME] [\-K PRIVKEY] [\-T TIMEOUT] [\-\-skip\-drivers]

Compile and deploy wult helpers and drivers to the SUT (System Under Test), which can be can be either local or a remote host, depending on the '\-H' option. By default, everything is built on the SUT, but the '\-\-local\-build' can be used for building on the local system. The drivers are searched for in the following directories (and in the following order) on the local host: ./drivers/idle, $WULT_DATA_PATH/drivers/idle, $HOME/.local/share/wult/drivers/idle, /usr/local/share/wult/drivers/idle, /usr/share/wult/drivers/idle.

.SH OPTIONS \fI\,'wult deploy'\/\fR
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Show this help message and exit.

.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Be quiet.

.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Print debugging information.

.TP
\fB\-\-kernel\-src\fR \fI\,KSRC\/\fR
Path to the Linux kernel sources to build drivers and eBPF helpers against. The default is '/lib/modules/$(uname \-r)/build' on the SUT. If '\-\-local\-build' was used, then the path is considered to be on the local system, rather than the
SUT.

.TP
\fB\-\-rebuild\-bpf\fR
eBPF helpers sources consist of 2 components: the user\-space component and the eBPF component. The user\-space component is distributed as a source code, and must be compiled. The eBPF component is distributed as both source code and in
binary (compiled) form. By default, the eBPF component is not re\-compiled. This option is meant to be used by wult developers to re\-compile the eBPF component if it was modified.

.TP
\fB\-\-local\-build\fR
Build helpers and drivers locally, instead of building on HOSTNAME (the SUT).

.TP
\fB\-\-tmpdir\-path\fR \fI\,TMPDIR_PATH\/\fR
When 'wult' is deployed, a random temporary directory is used. Use this option provide a custom path instead. It will be used as a temporary directory on both local and remote hosts. This option is meant for debugging purposes.

.TP
\fB\-\-keep\-tmpdir\fR
Do not remove the temporary directories created while deploying 'wult'. This option is meant for debugging purposes.

.TP
\fB\-H\fR \fI\,HOSTNAME\/\fR, \fB\-\-host\fR \fI\,HOSTNAME\/\fR
Name of the host to run the command on.

.TP
\fB\-U\fR \fI\,USERNAME\/\fR, \fB\-\-username\fR \fI\,USERNAME\/\fR
Name of the user to use for logging into the remote host over SSH. The default user name is 'root'.

.TP
\fB\-K\fR \fI\,PRIVKEY\/\fR, \fB\-\-priv\-key\fR \fI\,PRIVKEY\/\fR
Path to the private SSH key that should be used for logging into the remote host. By default the key is automatically found from standard paths like '~/.ssh'.

.TP
\fB\-T\fR \fI\,TIMEOUT\/\fR, \fB\-\-timeout\fR \fI\,TIMEOUT\/\fR
SSH connect timeout in seconds, default is 8.

.TP
\fB\-\-skip\-drivers\fR
Deploy the eBPF helper, but do not deploy the drivers. This is a debug and development option, do not use it for other purposes.

.SH COMMAND \fI\,'wult scan'\/\fR
usage: wult scan [\-h] [\-q] [\-d] [\-\-all] [\-H HOSTNAME] [\-U USERNAME] [\-K PRIVKEY] [\-T TIMEOUT]

Scan for available devices.

.SH OPTIONS \fI\,'wult scan'\/\fR
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Show this help message and exit.

.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Be quiet.

.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Print debugging information.

.TP
\fB\-\-all\fR
By default this command prints only the compatible devices which are supported by current wult installation. This option makes this command print about all the compatible devices.

.TP
\fB\-H\fR \fI\,HOSTNAME\/\fR, \fB\-\-host\fR \fI\,HOSTNAME\/\fR
Name of the host to run the command on.

.TP
\fB\-U\fR \fI\,USERNAME\/\fR, \fB\-\-username\fR \fI\,USERNAME\/\fR
Name of the user to use for logging into the remote host over SSH. The default user name is 'root'.

.TP
\fB\-K\fR \fI\,PRIVKEY\/\fR, \fB\-\-priv\-key\fR \fI\,PRIVKEY\/\fR
Path to the private SSH key that should be used for logging into the remote host. By default the key is automatically found from standard paths like '~/.ssh'.

.TP
\fB\-T\fR \fI\,TIMEOUT\/\fR, \fB\-\-timeout\fR \fI\,TIMEOUT\/\fR
SSH connect timeout in seconds, default is 8.

.SH COMMAND \fI\,'wult start'\/\fR
usage: wult start [\-h] [\-q] [\-d] [\-H HOSTNAME] [\-U USERNAME] [\-K PRIVKEY] [\-T TIMEOUT] [\-c COUNT] [\-\-time\-limit LIMIT] [\-\-exclude EXCLUDE] [\-\-include INCLUDE] [\-\-keep\-filtered] [\-o OUTDIR] [\-\-reportid REPORTID] [\-\-stats STATS]
                  [\-\-stats\-intervals STATS_INTERVALS] [\-\-list\-stats] [\-l LDIST] [\-\-cpunum CPUNUM] [\-\-tsc\-cal\-time TSC_CAL_TIME] [\-\-keep\-raw\-data] [\-\-no\-unload] [\-\-early\-intr] [\-\-report] [\-\-force]
                  devid

Start measuring and recording C\-state latency.

.TP
\fBdevid\fR
The ID of the device to use for measuring the latency. For example, it can be a PCI address of the Intel I210 device, or "tdt" for the TSC deadline timer block of the CPU. Use the 'scan' command to get supported devices.

.SH OPTIONS \fI\,'wult start'\/\fR
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Show this help message and exit.

.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Be quiet.

.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Print debugging information.

.TP
\fB\-H\fR \fI\,HOSTNAME\/\fR, \fB\-\-host\fR \fI\,HOSTNAME\/\fR
Name of the host to run the command on.

.TP
\fB\-U\fR \fI\,USERNAME\/\fR, \fB\-\-username\fR \fI\,USERNAME\/\fR
Name of the user to use for logging into the remote host over SSH. The default user name is 'root'.

.TP
\fB\-K\fR \fI\,PRIVKEY\/\fR, \fB\-\-priv\-key\fR \fI\,PRIVKEY\/\fR
Path to the private SSH key that should be used for logging into the remote host. By default the key is automatically found from standard paths like '~/.ssh'.

.TP
\fB\-T\fR \fI\,TIMEOUT\/\fR, \fB\-\-timeout\fR \fI\,TIMEOUT\/\fR
SSH connect timeout in seconds, default is 8.

.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fI\,COUNT\/\fR, \fB\-\-datapoints\fR \fI\,COUNT\/\fR
How many datapoints should the test result include, default is 1000000. Note, unless the '\-\-start\-over' option is used, the pre\-existing datapoints are taken into account. For example, if the test result already has 6000 datapoints and
'\-c 10000' is used, the tool will collect 4000 datapoints and exit. Warning: collecting too many datapoints may result in a very large test result file, which will be difficult to process later, because that would require a lot of
memory.

.TP
\fB\-\-time\-limit\fR \fI\,LIMIT\/\fR
The measurement time limit, i.e., for how long the SUT should be measured. The default unit is minute, but you can use the following handy specifiers as well: d \- days, h \- hours, m \- minutes, s \- seconds. For example '1h25m' would be 1
hour and 25 minutes, or 10m5s would be 10 minutes and 5 seconds. Value '0' means "no time limit", and this is the default. If this option is used along with the '\-\-datapoints' option, then measurements will stop as when either the time
limit is reached, or the required amount of datapoints is collected.

.TP
\fB\-\-exclude\fR \fI\,EXCLUDE\/\fR
Datapoints to exclude: remove all the datapoints satisfying the expression 'EXCLUDE'. Here is an example of an expression: '(WakeLatency < 10000) | (PC6% < 1)'. This filter expression will remove all datapoints with 'WakeLatency'
smaller than 10000 nanoseconds or package C6 residency smaller than 1%. You can use any metrics in the expression.

.TP
\fB\-\-include\fR \fI\,INCLUDE\/\fR
Datapoints to include: remove all datapoints except for those satisfying the expression 'INCLUDE'. In other words, this option is the inverse of '\-\-exclude'. This means, '\-\-include expr' is the same as '\-\-exclude "not (expr)"'.

.TP
\fB\-\-keep\-filtered\fR
If the '\-\-exclude' / '\-\-include' options are used, then the datapoints not matching the selector or matching the filter are discarded. This is the default behavior which can be changed with this option. If '\-\-keep\-filtered' has been
specified, then all datapoints are saved in result. Here is an example. Suppose you want to collect 100000 datapoints where PC6 residency is greater than 0. In this case, you can use these options: \-c 100000 \-\-exclude="PC6% == 0". The
result will contain 100000 datapoints, all of them will have non\-zero PC6 residency. But what if you do not want to simply discard the other datapoints, because they are also interesting? Well, add the '\-\-keep\-filtered' option. The
result will contain, say, 150000 datapoints, 100000 of which will have non\-zero PC6 residency.

.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fI\,OUTDIR\/\fR, \fB\-\-outdir\fR \fI\,OUTDIR\/\fR
Path to the directory to store the results at.

.TP
\fB\-\-reportid\fR \fI\,REPORTID\/\fR
Any string which may serve as an identifier of this run. By default report ID is the current date, prefixed with the remote host name in case the '\-H' option was used: [hostname\-]YYYYMMDD. For example, "20150323" is a report ID for a
run made on March 23, 2015. The allowed characters are: ACSII alphanumeric, '\-', '.', ',', '_', '~', and ':'.

.TP
\fB\-\-stats\fR \fI\,STATS\/\fR
Comma\-separated list of statistics to collect. The statistics are collected in parallel with measuring C\-state latency. They are stored in the the "stats" sub\-directory of the output directory. By default, only 'turbostat, sysinfo'
statistics are collected. Use 'all' to collect all possible statistics. Use '\-\-stats=""' or '\-\-stats="none"' to disable statistics collection. If you know exactly what statistics you need, specify the comma\-separated list of statistics
to collect. For example, use 'turbostat,acpower' if you need only turbostat and AC power meter statistics. You can also specify the statistics you do not want to be collected by pre\-pending the '!' symbol. For example, 'all,!turbostat'
would mean: collect all the statistics supported by the SUT, except for 'turbostat'. Use the '\-\-list\-stats' option to get more information about available statistics. By default, only 'sysinfo' statistics are collected.

.TP
\fB\-\-stats\-intervals\fR \fI\,STATS_INTERVALS\/\fR
The intervals for statistics. Statistics collection is based on doing periodic snapshots of data. For example, by default the 'acpower' statistics collector reads SUT power consumption for the last second every second, and 'turbostat'
default interval is 5 seconds. Use 'acpower:5,turbostat:10' to increase the intervals to 5 and 10 seconds correspondingly. Use the '\-\-list\-stats' to get the default interval values.

.TP
\fB\-\-list\-stats\fR
Print information about the statistics 'wult' can collect and exit.

.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fI\,LDIST\/\fR, \fB\-\-ldist\fR \fI\,LDIST\/\fR
This tool works by scheduling a delayed event, then sleeping and waiting for it to happen. This step is referred to as a "measurement cycle" and it is usually repeated many times. The launch distance defines how far in the future the
delayed event is scheduled. By default this tool randomly selects launch distance within a range. The default range is [0,4ms], but you can override it with this option. Specify a comma\-separated range (e.g '\-\-ldist 10,5000'), or a
single value if you want launch distance to be precisely that value all the time. The default unit is microseconds, but you can use the following specifiers as well: ms \- milliseconds, us \- microseconds, ns \- nanoseconds. For example, '
\-\-ldist 10us,5ms' would be a [10,5000] microseconds range. Too small values may cause failures or prevent the SUT from reaching deep C\-states. If the range starts with 0, the minimum possible launch distance value allowed by the delayed
event source will be used. The optimal launch distance range is system\-specific.

.TP
\fB\-\-cpunum\fR \fI\,CPUNUM\/\fR
The logical CPU number to measure, default is CPU 0.

.TP
\fB\-\-tsc\-cal\-time\fR \fI\,TSC_CAL_TIME\/\fR
Wult receives raw datapoints from the driver, then processes them, and then saves the processed datapoint in the 'datapoints.csv' file. The processing involves converting TSC cycles to microseconds, so wult needs SUT's TSC rate. TSC
rate is calculated from the datapoints, which come with TSC counters and timestamps, so TSC rate can be calculated as "delta TSC / delta timestamp". In other words, wult needs two datapoints to calculate TSC rate. However, the
datapoints have to be far enough apart, and this option defines the distance between the datapoints (in seconds). The default distance is 10 seconds, which means that wult will keep collecting and buffering datapoints for 10s without
processing them (because processing requires TSC rate to be known). After 10s, wult will start processing all the buffered datapoints, and then the newly collected datapoints. Generally, longer TSC calculation time translates to better
accuracy.

.TP
\fB\-\-keep\-raw\-data\fR
Wult receives raw datapoints from the driver, then processes them, and then saves the processed datapoint in the 'datapoints.csv' file. In order to keep the CSV file smaller, wult keeps only the essential information, and drops the
rest. For example, raw timestamps are dropped. With this option, however, wult saves all the raw data to the CSV file, along with the processed data.

.TP
\fB\-\-no\-unload\fR
This option exists for debugging and troubleshooting purposes. Please, do not use for other reasons. If wult loads kernel modules, they get unloaded after the measurements are done. But with this option wult will not unload the modules.

.TP
\fB\-\-early\-intr\fR
This option is for research purposes and you most probably do not need it. Linux's 'cpuidle' subsystem enters most C\-states with interrupts disabled. So when the CPU exits the C\-state because of an interrupt, it will not jump to the
interrupt handler, but instead, continue running some 'cpuidle' housekeeping code. After this, the 'cpuidle' subsystem enables interrupts, and the CPU jumps to the interrupt handler. Therefore, there is a tiny delay the 'cpuidle'
subsystem adds on top of the hardware C\-state latency. For fast C\-states like C1, this tiny delay may even be measurable on some platforms. This option allows to measure that delay. It makes wult enable interrupts before linux enters
the C\-state.

.TP
\fB\-\-report\fR
Generate an HTML report for collected results (same as calling 'report' command with default arguments).

.TP
\fB\-\-force\fR
By default a network card is not accepted as a measurement device if it is used by a Linux network interface and the interface is in an active state, such as "up". Use '\-\-force' to disable this safety mechanism. Use it with caution.

.SH COMMAND \fI\,'wult report'\/\fR
usage: wult report [\-h] [\-q] [\-d] [\-o OUTDIR] [\-\-exclude EXCLUDE] [\-\-include INCLUDE] [\-\-even\-up\-dp\-count] [\-x XAXES] [\-y YAXES] [\-\-hist HIST] [\-\-chist CHIST] [\-\-reportids REPORTIDS] [\-\-report\-descr REPORT_DESCR] [\-\-relocatable]
                   [\-\-list\-metrics] [\-\-size REPORT_SIZE]
                   respaths [respaths ...]

Create an HTML report for one or multiple test results.

.TP
\fBrespaths\fR
One or multiple wult test result paths.

.SH OPTIONS \fI\,'wult report'\/\fR
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Show this help message and exit.

.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Be quiet.

.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Print debugging information.

.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fI\,OUTDIR\/\fR, \fB\-\-outdir\fR \fI\,OUTDIR\/\fR
Path to the directory to store the report at. By default the report is stored in the 'wult\-report\-<reportid>' sub\-directory of the test result directory. If there are multiple test results, the report is stored in the current directory.
The '<reportid>' is report ID of wult test result.

.TP
\fB\-\-exclude\fR \fI\,EXCLUDE\/\fR
Datapoints to exclude: remove all the datapoints satisfying the expression 'EXCLUDE'. Here is an example of an expression: '(WakeLatency < 10000) | (PC6% < 1)'. This filter expression will remove all datapoints with 'WakeLatency'
smaller than 10000 nanoseconds or package C6 residency smaller than 1%. The detailed expression syntax can be found in the documentation for the 'eval()' function of Python 'pandas' module. You can use metrics in the expression, or the
special word 'index' for the row number (0\-based index) of a datapoint in the results. For example, expression 'index >= 10' will get rid of all datapoints except for the first 10 ones.

.TP
\fB\-\-include\fR \fI\,INCLUDE\/\fR
Datapoints to include: remove all datapoints except for those satisfying the expression 'INCLUDE'. In other words, this option is the inverse of '\-\-exclude'. This means, '\-\-include expr' is the same as '\-\-exclude "not (expr)"'.

.TP
\fB\-\-even\-up\-dp\-count\fR
Even up datapoints count before generating the report. This option is useful when generating a report for many test results (a diff). If the test results contain different count of datapoints (rows count in the CSV file), the resulting
histograms may look a little bit misleading. This option evens up datapoints count in the test results. It just finds the test result with the minimum count of datapoints and ignores the extra datapoints in the other test results.

.TP
\fB\-x\fR \fI\,XAXES\/\fR, \fB\-\-xaxes\fR \fI\,XAXES\/\fR
A comma\-separated list of metrics (or python style regular expressions matching the names) to use on X\-axes of the scatter plot(s), default is 'SilentTime'. Use '\-\-list\-metrics' to get the list of the available metrics. Use value 'none'
to disable scatter plots.

.TP
\fB\-y\fR \fI\,YAXES\/\fR, \fB\-\-yaxes\fR \fI\,YAXES\/\fR
A comma\-separated list of metrics (or python style regular expressions matching the names) to use on the Y\-axes for the scatter plot(s). If multiple metrics are specified for the X\- or Y\-axes, then the report will include multiple
scatter plots for all the X\- and Y\-axes combinations. The default is '.*Latency'. Use '\-\-list\-metrics' to get the list of the available metrics. Use value 'none' to disable scatter plots.

.TP
\fB\-\-hist\fR \fI\,HIST\/\fR
A comma\-separated list of metrics (or python style regular expressions matching the names) to add a histogram for, default is '.*Latency'. Use '\-\-list\-metrics' to get the list of the available metrics. Use value 'none' to disable
histograms.

.TP
\fB\-\-chist\fR \fI\,CHIST\/\fR
A comma\-separated list of metrics (or python style regular expressions matching the names) to add a cumulative distribution for, default is 'None'. Use '\-\-list\-metrics' to get the list of the available metrics. Use value 'none' to
disable cumulative histograms.

.TP
\fB\-\-reportids\fR \fI\,REPORTIDS\/\fR
Every input raw result comes with a report ID. This report ID is basically a short name for the test result, and it used in the HTML report to refer to the test result. However, sometimes it is helpful to temporarily override the report
IDs just for the HTML report, and this is what the '\-\-reportids' option does. Please, specify a comma\-separated list of report IDs for every input raw test result. The first report ID will be used for the first raw rest result, the
second report ID will be used for the second raw test result, and so on. Please, refer to the '\-\-reportid' option description in the 'start' command for more information about the report ID.

.TP
\fB\-\-report\-descr\fR \fI\,REPORT_DESCR\/\fR
The report description \- any text describing this report as whole, or path to a file containing the overall report description. For example, if the report compares platform A and platform B, the description could be something like
'platform A vs B comparison'. This text will be included into the very beginning of the resulting HTML report.

.TP
\fB\-\-relocatable\fR
Generate a report which contains a copy of the raw test results. With this option, viewers of the report will also be able to browse raw statistics files which are copied across with the raw test results.

.TP
\fB\-\-list\-metrics\fR
Print the list of the available metrics and exit.

.TP
\fB\-\-size\fR \fI\,REPORT_SIZE\/\fR
Generate HTML report with a pre\-defined set of diagrams and histograms. Possible values: 'small' or 'large'. This option is mutually exclusive with '\-\-xaxes', '\-\-yaxes', '\-\-hist', '\-\-chist'.

.SH COMMAND \fI\,'wult filter'\/\fR
usage: wult filter [\-h] [\-q] [\-d] [\-\-exclude EXCLUDE] [\-\-include INCLUDE] [\-\-exclude\-metrics MEXCLUDE] [\-\-include\-metrics MINCLUDE] [\-\-human\-readable] [\-o OUTDIR] [\-\-list\-metrics] [\-\-reportid REPORTID] respath

Filter datapoints out of a test result by removing CSV rows and metrics according to specified criteria. The criteria is specified using the row and metric filter and selector options ('\-\-include', '\-\-exclude\-metrics', etc). The options may be specified multiple times.

.TP
\fBrespath\fR
The wult test result path to filter.

.SH OPTIONS \fI\,'wult filter'\/\fR
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Show this help message and exit.

.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Be quiet.

.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Print debugging information.

.TP
\fB\-\-exclude\fR \fI\,EXCLUDE\/\fR
Datapoints to exclude: remove all the datapoints satisfying the expression 'EXCLUDE'. Here is an example of an expression: '(WakeLatency < 10000) | (PC6% < 1)'. This filter expression will remove all datapoints with 'WakeLatency'
smaller than 10000 nanoseconds or package C6 residency smaller than 1%. The detailed expression syntax can be found in the documentation for the 'eval()' function of Python 'pandas' module. You can use metrics in the expression, or the
special word 'index' for the row number (0\-based index) of a datapoint in the results. For example, expression 'index >= 10' will get rid of all datapoints except for the first 10 ones.

.TP
\fB\-\-include\fR \fI\,INCLUDE\/\fR
Datapoints to include: remove all datapoints except for those satisfying the expression 'INCLUDE'. In other words, this option is the inverse of '\-\-exclude'. This means, '\-\-include expr' is the same as '\-\-exclude "not (expr)"'.

.TP
\fB\-\-exclude\-metrics\fR \fI\,MEXCLUDE\/\fR
The metrics to exclude. Expects a comma\-separated list of the metrics or python style regular expressions matching the names. For example, the expression 'SilentTime,WarmupDelay,.*Cyc', would remove metrics 'SilentTime', 'WarmupDelay'
and all metrics with 'Cyc' in their name. Use '\-\-list\-metrics' to get the list of the available metrics.

.TP
\fB\-\-include\-metrics\fR \fI\,MINCLUDE\/\fR
The metrics to include: remove all metrics except for those specified by this option. The syntax is the same as for '\-\-exclude\-metrics'.

.TP
\fB\-\-human\-readable\fR
By default the result 'filter' command print the result as a CSV file to the standard output. This option can be used to dump the result in a more human\-readable form.

.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fI\,OUTDIR\/\fR, \fB\-\-outdir\fR \fI\,OUTDIR\/\fR
By default the resulting CSV lines are printed to the standard output. But this option can be used to specify the output directly to store the result at. This will create a filtered version of the input test result.

.TP
\fB\-\-list\-metrics\fR
Print the list of the available metrics and exit.

.TP
\fB\-\-reportid\fR \fI\,REPORTID\/\fR
Report ID of the filtered version of the result (can only be used with '\-\-outdir').

.SH COMMAND \fI\,'wult calc'\/\fR
usage: wult calc [\-h] [\-q] [\-d] [\-\-exclude EXCLUDE] [\-\-include INCLUDE] [\-\-exclude\-metrics MEXCLUDE] [\-\-include\-metrics MINCLUDE] [\-f FUNCS] [\-\-list\-funcs] respath

Calculates various summary functions for a wult test result (e.g., the median value for one of the CSV columns).

.TP
\fBrespath\fR
The wult test result path to calculate summary functions for.

.SH OPTIONS \fI\,'wult calc'\/\fR
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Show this help message and exit.

.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Be quiet.

.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Print debugging information.

.TP
\fB\-\-exclude\fR \fI\,EXCLUDE\/\fR
Datapoints to exclude: remove all the datapoints satisfying the expression 'EXCLUDE'. Here is an example of an expression: '(WakeLatency < 10000) | (PC6% < 1)'. This filter expression will remove all datapoints with 'WakeLatency'
smaller than 10000 nanoseconds or package C6 residency smaller than 1%. The detailed expression syntax can be found in the documentation for the 'eval()' function of Python 'pandas' module. You can use metrics in the expression, or the
special word 'index' for the row number (0\-based index) of a datapoint in the results. For example, expression 'index >= 10' will get rid of all datapoints except for the first 10 ones.

.TP
\fB\-\-include\fR \fI\,INCLUDE\/\fR
Datapoints to include: remove all datapoints except for those satisfying the expression 'INCLUDE'. In other words, this option is the inverse of '\-\-exclude'. This means, '\-\-include expr' is the same as '\-\-exclude "not (expr)"'.

.TP
\fB\-\-exclude\-metrics\fR \fI\,MEXCLUDE\/\fR
The metrics to exclude. Expects a comma\-separated list of the metrics or python style regular expressions matching the names. For example, the expression 'SilentTime,WarmupDelay,.*Cyc', would remove metrics 'SilentTime', 'WarmupDelay'
and all metrics with 'Cyc' in their name. Use '\-\-list\-metrics' to get the list of the available metrics.

.TP
\fB\-\-include\-metrics\fR \fI\,MINCLUDE\/\fR
The metrics to include: remove all metrics except for those specified by this option. The syntax is the same as for '\-\-exclude\-metrics'.

.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fI\,FUNCS\/\fR, \fB\-\-funcs\fR \fI\,FUNCS\/\fR
Comma\-separated list of summary functions to calculate. By default all generally interesting functions are calculated (each metric is associated with a list of functions that make sense for that metric). Use '\-\-list\-funcs' to get the
list of supported functions.

.TP
\fB\-\-list\-funcs\fR
Print the list of the available summary functions.

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Artem Bityutskiy
.fi
.nf
dedekind1@gmail.com
.fi

.SH DISTRIBUTION
The latest version of wult may be downloaded from
.UR https://github.com/intel/wult
.UE
